My reason for creating this youtube channel
is that I have a daughter, and I have a daughter
that I will never get to see again.
So, you can imagine, I'm creating these videos
with the hope that one day my daughter will
have the opportunity to see them.
One day this will create an opportunity for
her to know what I sounded like, what I looked
like, what motivated me in life, what the
reasons were for how I lived my life up to
this point.
And, of course, I'm hoping that Youtube will
still be in business 20 years from now.
If the website disappears, then my efforts
to leave some bridge between the generations
will disappear with it.
In all of these photographs, you'll notice
that I look exhausted.
And I am exhausted.
Taking care of a newborn baby is basically
impossible for two people to do in isolation;
I don't particularly subscribe to the old
saying that "it takes a village to raise a
child", but there's a huge difference between
two parents working alone, and two parents
having help from a third person or a fourth
person (whether that's a grandparent, an aunt,
an uncle, or otherwise).
The more people you have, the more you can
distribute the hours of sleep between the
adults.
We had just two people, working very much
alone.
In presenting these photographs, I could be
telling stories about the circumstances surrounding
the birth, what we went through before and
after.
I could talk about how awful the staff were
at the hospital; I could talk about how awful
the struggle was to get furniture and electricity
into the apartment before the baby arrived.
However, most of those stories, they're neither
concise nor witty; they'd probably take several
hours to tell, and I think they might not
even be interesting to my own daughter.
It was tough.
In a word, the whole process was tough, and
nobody made it easy for us.
People in the medical system lied to us at
every stage.
People lost their tempers all around us for
no good reason at all.
I had to stop --physically stop-- a nurse
from attacking my wife at least once or twice.
Everyone who was supposed to be healthy, sane
professional, acted like they were the ones
who needed help.
They were openly bullying someone who was
in physical pain, to no good purpose, and
created conflict and misery on what should
have been (or could have been) a happy occasion.
Instead, all the time that we were in contact
with medical professionals was just a bleak
struggle.
And, I was told many times that if I didn't
like it, I could go back to the health care
system in "my country" —and the people telling
me this, they all imagined that I came from
some third-world country that lacked electricity,
that lacked modern hospitals, no matter how
many times I told them that I was from Canada.
I had sacrificed everything in my life to
relocate from Asia to Canada, to start a new
life, supporting my wife, in the new job that
she had accepted there.
And then, just as suddenly, I had to sacrifice
everything I was doing in Canada, to start
a new life in France, and support my wife's
decision to quit her job and have a baby at
the same time.
France didn't last; the marriage didn't last,
either.
I was able to spend only 10 months with my
daughter before my wife's sudden disappearance,
taking both the baby, and, predictably, taking
all of our money with her.
She was on an airplane just four days after
the decision to divorce.
However, during those first ten months of
my daughter's life, all of my time was devoted
to taking care of the baby, either directly
or indirectly.
When you have just two people working in isolation,
you have to carefully coordinate everything
you're doing, from grocery shopping to napping,
so that someone is tending to the baby at
all times.
And, during that process, I was also doing
a lot of heavy lifting, as moved, again and
again, from one home to the next, bought new
furniture, assembled the furniture, and then
ended up throwing it away.
The struggle was to create an island of stability
for a newborn baby, in a context where our
own lives, in fact, were completely lacking
any stability.
What was going to happen with my own future
(even within a few months' time) was very
much an open question.
So, now, I'll never see my daughter again,
and I'm left to start a new life on my own.
I know that you may be wondering, with some
idiom or another, "How is this possible?"
If two educated people get together... if
get married to a woman with a PhD, how does
it end this way?
How do you end up as a guest on the Jerry
Springer show?
Intellectuals are passionate people too.
Most intellectuals I've known were motivated
by their passions more than their thoughts,
maybe just because they've long since gotten
bored of their thoughts in their teenage years.
When we first met, my wife fell in love with
me pretty much instantly.
She made the decision that she wanted to marry
me about three weeks into the relationship.
Less than six years later, she was just as
decisive in leaving me —and, whatever mix
of motivations she may have had, that isn't
my story to tell.
On this Youtube channel, I'm just telling
my own story, about my own past, present and
future.
And, hopefully, as I say, one day my daughter
will be able to see this and hear this, and
make better decisions for her own life.
In the 21st century, ultimately, it is entirely
my wife's decision, and of course, as terrible
as it is for me, I sympathize that she's made
a very tough decision, and [has] chosen a
very hard path, in choosing to be a single
mother.
And I'm left to say that (in some sense) I
support her decision, even if it has a devastating
effect on my own life, just as I supported
her other decisions before, relocating to
Canada, relocating to France, relocating to
Asia, I supported those decisions also, even
if they had a devastating effect on my life.